---
aliases:
- /OS/WriteUps/XV6-Lab4-2024
categories:
- Write-ups
date: '2025-01-14'
description: Answer for lab3 2024
image: images/xv6_mit.png
layout: post
title: "XV6 Series: MIT Lab4 2024"
toc: true
draft: false

---
## RISC-V assembly
> 1. Which registers contain arguments to functions? For example, which register holds 13 in main's call to printf?

In RISC, a0-a7 are used to store function's arguments. Specifically, for the `printf`, register a2 holds the value 13.



```c
void main(void) {
1c:	1141                	add	sp,sp,-16
1e:	e406                	sd	ra,8(sp)
20:	e022                	sd	s0,0(sp)
22:	0800                	add	s0,sp,16
printf("%d %d\n", f(8)+1, 13);
24:	4635                	li	a2,13
26:	45b1                	li	a1,12
28:	00001517          	auipc	a0,0x1
2c:	84850513          	add	a0,a0,-1976 # 870 <malloc+0x100>
30:	68c000ef          	jal	6bc <printf>
exit(0);
34:	4501                	li	a0,0
36:	26e000ef          	jal	2a4 <exit>

int f(int x) {
   e:	1141                	add	sp,sp,-16
  10:	e422                	sd	s0,8(sp)
  12:	0800                	add	s0,sp,16
  return g(x);
}
```

> 2. Where is the call to function f in the assembly code for main? Where is the call to g? (Hint: the compiler may inline functions.)

From the code above, we can see that the call to function `f` is `inlined` in main.

> 3. At what address is the function printf located?

From the code above, we can see that the `printf` function is located at 0x6bc.

> 4. What value is in the register ra just after the jalr to printf in main?
 
**Notes:**
`jal`(jump and link): jump to the address and save the address of the next instruction in the `ra` register.

By this definition, then the register `ra` will store the address of the next instruction, which is `0x34` in this case.

> 5. Run the following code.
```c
unsigned int i = 0x00646c72;
printf("H%x Wo%s", 57616, (char *) &i);
```
> What is the output? Here’s an ASCII table that maps bytes to characters. 
 
> The output depends on that fact that the RISC-V is little-endian. If the RISC-V were instead big-endian what would you set i to in order to yield the same output? Would you need to change 57616 to a different value?

In little-endian system, the least significant byte is stored at the lowest address. That means the value `i = 0x00646c72`
is stored as `72 6c 64 00` in memory. In which,
- `0x72` is `r`
- `0x6c` is `l`
- `0x64` is `d`
- `0x00` is `\0`

Also, in `printf`, `%x` is used to print the hexadecimal format.

Therefore, the output is:
```c
He110 World
```

If RISC-V is big-endian, then the value of `i` should be `0x726c6400` and the value of `57616`.

> In the following code, what is going to be printed after 'y='? (note: the answer is not a specific value.) Why does this happen?
```c
printf("x=%d y=%d", 3);
```

Since the `printf` function requires two arguments for 2 format specifiers, but only one argument is provided, the output
will be undefined or the program will be crashed.
